docs: Update equivocation page [DOCS-149] (#23581)
MystenLabs/sui: docs/content/guides/developer/sui-101/avoid-equivocation.mdx

keywords: [ equivocation, how to avoid equivocation, unintentionally locking objects, accidentally locking objects ]
---

> On Sui, object versioning ensures that each object is referenced by a unique (`ObjectId`, `SequenceNumber`) pair, where `SequenceNumber` refers to the object's version. Only a single transaction can modify an object at a specific version. Once a transaction modifies an object, the version is incremented. Only the latest version can be used in a future transaction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On Sui, object versioning ensures that each object is referenced by a unique (`ObjectId`, `SequenceNumber`) pair, where `SequenceNumber` refers to the object's version. Only a single transaction can modify an object at a specific version. After a transaction modifies an object, the version is incremented. Only the latest version can be used in a future transaction.
```

Object versioning tracks the state of objects across transactions and epochs. 

## What is equivocation?

*Equivocation* occurs when an owned object pair (`ObjectId`, `SequenceNumber`) is used concurrently in multiple non-finalized transactions. Any object used in multiple transactions can become a source of equivocation if not managed correctly. 

Equivocation can occur when:

- A user or smart contract submits two transactions using the same (`ObjectId`, `SequenceNumber`) before the first is finalized.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- Inadvertent logic traps in smart contract code, for example, when handling [sponsored transactions](/guides/developer/sui-101/sponsor-txn#client-equivocation-risk).

> Even though both transactions will not be finalized, submitting equivocated transactions still causes other problems for both developers and users. For example, when equivocation is detected, the involved object(s) are locked until the end of the current epoch. Neither transaction can proceed, and the object(s) cannot be used in any other transaction. Bad actors could intentionally submit equivocated transactions to lock up important objects and intentionally disrupt dApps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Even though both transactions aren't finalized, submitting equivocated transactions still causes other problems for both developers and users. For example, when equivocation is detected, the involved objects are locked until the end of the current epoch. Neither transaction can proceed, and the objects cannot be used in any other transaction. Bad actors could intentionally submit equivocated transactions to lock up important objects and intentionally disrupt dApps.
```
Was never a fan of the `(s)` construct but I don't think it's in the style guide.
